docs/pages/enterprise/workflow/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Access Requests for SSH and Kubernetes Access
description: How to customize SSH and Kubernetes access using Teleport.
h1: Teleport Access Requests
---

#### Approving Requests using an External Integration

- [Integrating Teleport with Slack](ssh-approval-slack.mdx)
- [Integrating Teleport with Mattermost](ssh-approval-mattermost.mdx)
- [Integrating Teleport with Jira Cloud](ssh-approval-jira-cloud.mdx)
- [Integrating Teleport with Jira Server](ssh-approval-jira-server.mdx)
- [Integrating Teleport with PagerDuty](ssh-approval-pagerduty.mdx)

## Access Requests Setup

Teleport has the ability for users to request additional roles. The
Access Request API makes it easy to dynamically approve or deny these requests.

### Setup

**Contractor Role**
This role allows the contractor to request the role DBA.

```yaml
kind: role
version: v4
metadata:
  name: contractor
spec:
  allow:
    request:
      roles: ['dba']
    # ...
  deny:
    # ...
  options:
    # ...
```

**DBA Role**
This role allows the contractor to request the role DBA.

```yaml
kind: role
version: v4
metadata:
  name: dba
spec:
  allow:
    # ...
  deny:
    # ...
  options:
    # ...
    # Only allows the contractor to use this role for 1 hour from time of request.
    max_session_ttl: 1h
```

**Admin Role**
This role allows the admin to approve the contractor's request.

```yaml
kind: role
version: v4
metadata:
  name: admin
spec:
  allow:
    # `review_requests` permits the listed roles to be approved
    review_requests:
      roles:
      - 'dba'
    rules:
    # `access_request` is part of Access Workflows introduced in 4.2
    # `access_request` should only be given to Teleport Admins.
    # For a full list of allow-rules, see
    # https://goteleport.com/docs/access-controls/reference/
    - resources:
      - access_request
      verbs:
      - list
      - read
      - update
      - delete
  deny:
    # ...
  options:
    # ...
```

```code
$ tsh login teleport-cluster --request-roles=dba
# Seeking request approval... (id: bc8ca931-fec9-4b15-9a6f-20c13c5641a9)
```

As a Teleport Administrator:

```code
$ tctl request ls
# Token                                Requestor Metadata       Created At (UTC)    Status
# ------------------------------------ --------- -------------- ------------------- -------
# bc8ca931-fec9-4b15-9a6f-20c13c5641a9 alice     roles=dba      07 Nov 19 19:38 UTC PENDING
```

```code
$ tctl request approve bc8ca931-fec9-4b15-9a6f-20c13c5641a9
```

Assuming access, `tsh` will automatically manage a certificate re-issued with
the newly requested roles applied. In this case `contractor` will now have have
the permission of the `dba`.

<Admonition type="warning">
  Granting a role with administrative abilities could allow a user to **permanently**
  upgrade their privileges (e.g. if contractor was granted admin for some reason).
  We recommend only escalating to the next role of least privilege vs jumping directly
  to "Super Admin" role.

  The `deny.request` block can help mitigate the risk of doing this by accident. See
  Example Below.
</Admonition>

```yaml
# Example role that explicitly denies a contractor from requesting the admin
# role.
kind: role
version: v4
metadata:
name: contractor
spec:
options:
    # ...
allow:
    # ...
deny:
    request:
    roles: ['admin']
```

## Adding a Reason to Access Requests

When requesting a new role users can add provide a reason along with their request
`tsh login --request-roles="db" --request-reason="Need access to db"`.

By requiring a reason along with an access request, you can provide users with a default
unprivileged state where they must always go through the Access Requests API in order to
gain meaningful privilege.

Teams can leverage claims (traits) provided by external identity providers both when
determining which roles a user is allowed to request, and if a specific request
should be approved/denied.

### Example Setup

**Unprivileged User**<br/>
In this example we have an employee who isn't able to access any systems. When they
log in, they'll always need to provide a reason for access.

```yaml
kind: role
metadata:
  name: employee
spec:
  allow:
    request:
      # the `roles` list can now be a mixture of literals and wildcard matchers
      roles: ['common', 'dev-*']
      # the `claims_to_roles` mapping works the same as it does in
      # the OIDC connector, with the added benefit that the roles being mapped to
      # can also be matchers. the below mapping says that users with
      # the claims `groups: admins` can request any role in the system.
      claims_to_roles:
        - claim: groups
          value: admins
          roles: ['*']
      # Teleport can attach annotations to pending access requests. these
      # annotations may be literals, or be variable interpolation expressions,
      # effectively creating a means for propagating selected claims from an
      # external identity provider to the plugin system.
      annotations:
        foo: ['bar']
        groups: ['{{external.groups}}']
  options:
    # the `request_access` field can be set to 'always' or 'reason' to tell
    # tsh or the web UI to always create an access request on login. If it is
    # set to 'reason', the user will be required to indicate *why* they are
    # generating the access request.
    request_access: reason
    # the `request_prompt` field can be used to tell the user what should
    # be supplied in the request reason field.
    request_prompt: Please provide your ticket ID
version: v3
```

<Admonition
  type="tip"
  title="Wildcard and RegEx Tips"
>
  Teleport RBAC offers powerful wildcard and RegEx helpers. Below are a few examples.

  `dev-*` - Can request all dev clusters. e.g. dev-prod,dev-stg

  `^prod.*$` - Can request all `prod.*` clusters. e.g. prod.us-east

  `dev-{{regexp.match("us-*")}}` - Can request any dev cluster in the US. e.g. dev-us-east-a, dev-us-west-b

  `dev-{{regexp.not_match("beta")}}-prod` - Can request any cluster, apart from beta cluster. e.g. Can access dev-alpha-prod, cannot access dev-beta-prod.
</Admonition>

**Unprivileged User Login**<br/>

```code
# Login: This will prompt the user to provide a reason in the UI.
$ tsh login
# Login: The user can provide a reason using tsh.
$ tsh login --request-reason="..."
```

<Admonition
  type="tip"
  title="Note"
>
  Notice that the above role does not specify any logins. If a users's roles specify no logins, Teleport will now generate the user's initial SSH certificates with an invalid dummy login of the form `-teleport-nologin-<random-suffix>` (e.g. `-teleport-nologin-1e02dbfd`).
</Admonition>

**Admin Flow: Approve/Deny**<br/>

A number of new parameters are now available that grant the plugin or administrator greater insight into approvals/denials:

```code
$ tctl request deny --reason='Please be more specific' --annotations=method=cli,unix-user=${USER} 28a3fb86-0230-439d-ad88-11cfcb213193
```

Because automatically generated requests always include all roles that the user is allowed to request, approvers can now specify a smaller subset of the requested roles that should actually be applied, allowing for sub-selection in cases where full escalation is not a desirable default:

```code
$ tctl request approve --roles=role-1,role-3 --reason='Approved, but not role-2 right now' 28a3fb86-0230-439d-ad88-11cfcb213193
```

### Other features of Access Requests

- Users can request multiple roles at one time. e.g `roles: ['dba','netsec','cluster-x']`
- Approved requests have no effect on Teleport's behavior outside of allowing additional
  roles on re-issue. This has the nice effect of making requests "compatible" with
  older versions of Teleport, since only the issuing Auth Server needs any particular
  knowledge of the feature.

## Integrating with an External Tool

| Integration | Feature | Type | Setup Instructions |
| - | - | - | - |
| Slack | | Chatbot | [Setup Slack](ssh-approval-slack.mdx) |
| Mattermost | | Chatbot | [Setup Mattermost](ssh-approval-mattermost.mdx) |
| Jira Server | | Project Board | [Setup Jira Server](ssh-approval-jira-server.mdx) |
| Jira Cloud | | Project Board | [Setup Jira Cloud](ssh-approval-jira-cloud.mdx) |
| PagerDuty | | Schedule | [Setup PagerDuty](ssh-approval-pagerduty.mdx) |

Commit message:

Add documentation for the nowait flag.

docs/pages/enterprise/workflow/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Access Requests for SSH and Kubernetes Access
description: How to customize SSH and Kubernetes access using Teleport.
h1: Teleport Access Requests
---

#### Approving Requests using an External Integration

- [Integrating Teleport with Slack](ssh-approval-slack.mdx)
- [Integrating Teleport with Mattermost](ssh-approval-mattermost.mdx)
- [Integrating Teleport with Jira Cloud](ssh-approval-jira-cloud.mdx)
- [Integrating Teleport with Jira Server](ssh-approval-jira-server.mdx)
- [Integrating Teleport with PagerDuty](ssh-approval-pagerduty.mdx)

## Access Requests Setup

Teleport has the ability for users to request additional roles. The
Access Request API makes it easy to dynamically approve or deny these requests.

### Setup

**Contractor Role**
This role allows the contractor to request the role DBA.

```yaml
kind: role
version: v4
metadata:
  name: contractor
spec:
  allow:
    request:
      roles: ['dba']
    # ...
  deny:
    # ...
  options:
    # ...
```

**DBA Role**
This role allows the contractor to request the role DBA.

```yaml
kind: role
version: v4
metadata:
  name: dba
spec:
  allow:
    # ...
  deny:
    # ...
  options:
    # ...
    # Only allows the contractor to use this role for 1 hour from time of request.
    max_session_ttl: 1h
```

**Admin Role**
This role allows the admin to approve the contractor's request.

```yaml
kind: role
version: v4
metadata:
  name: admin
spec:
  allow:
    # `review_requests` permits the listed roles to be approved
    review_requests:
      roles:
      - 'dba'
    rules:
    # `access_request` is part of Access Workflows introduced in 4.2
    # `access_request` should only be given to Teleport Admins.
    # For a full list of allow-rules, see
    # https://goteleport.com/docs/access-controls/reference/
    - resources:
      - access_request
      verbs:
      - list
      - read
      - update
      - delete
  deny:
    # ...
  options:
    # ...
```

```code
$ tsh login teleport-cluster --request-roles=dba
# Seeking request approval... (id: bc8ca931-fec9-4b15-9a6f-20c13c5641a9)
```

<Admonition type="note">
  Users can finish the request without waiting for approval with the `--request-nowait` flag.
  Once the request is approved, the user can see it with `tsh request ls` and login with it
  using `tsh login --request-id`.
</Admonition>

As a Teleport Administrator:

```code
$ tctl request ls
# Token                                Requestor Metadata       Created At (UTC)    Status
# ------------------------------------ --------- -------------- ------------------- -------
# bc8ca931-fec9-4b15-9a6f-20c13c5641a9 alice     roles=dba      07 Nov 19 19:38 UTC PENDING
```

```code
$ tctl request approve bc8ca931-fec9-4b15-9a6f-20c13c5641a9
```

Assuming access, `tsh` will automatically manage a certificate re-issued with
the newly requested roles applied. In this case `contractor` will now have have
the permission of the `dba`.

<Admonition type="warning">
  Granting a role with administrative abilities could allow a user to **permanently**
  upgrade their privileges (e.g. if contractor was granted admin for some reason).
  We recommend only escalating to the next role of least privilege vs jumping directly
  to "Super Admin" role.

  The `deny.request` block can help mitigate the risk of doing this by accident. See
  Example Below.
</Admonition>

```yaml
# Example role that explicitly denies a contractor from requesting the admin
# role.
kind: role
version: v4
metadata:
name: contractor
spec:
options:
    # ...
allow:
    # ...
deny:
    request:
    roles: ['admin']
```

## Adding a Reason to Access Requests

When requesting a new role users can add provide a reason along with their request
`tsh login --request-roles="db" --request-reason="Need access to db"`.

By requiring a reason along with an access request, you can provide users with a default
unprivileged state where they must always go through the Access Requests API in order to
gain meaningful privilege.

Teams can leverage claims (traits) provided by external identity providers both when
determining which roles a user is allowed to request, and if a specific request
should be approved/denied.

### Example Setup

**Unprivileged User**<br/>
In this example we have an employee who isn't able to access any systems. When they
log in, they'll always need to provide a reason for access.

```yaml
kind: role
metadata:
  name: employee
spec:
  allow:
    request:
      # the `roles` list can now be a mixture of literals and wildcard matchers
      roles: ['common', 'dev-*']
      # the `claims_to_roles` mapping works the same as it does in
      # the OIDC connector, with the added benefit that the roles being mapped to
      # can also be matchers. the below mapping says that users with
      # the claims `groups: admins` can request any role in the system.
      claims_to_roles:
        - claim: groups
          value: admins
          roles: ['*']
      # Teleport can attach annotations to pending access requests. these
      # annotations may be literals, or be variable interpolation expressions,
      # effectively creating a means for propagating selected claims from an
      # external identity provider to the plugin system.
      annotations:
        foo: ['bar']
        groups: ['{{external.groups}}']
  options:
    # the `request_access` field can be set to 'always' or 'reason' to tell
    # tsh or the web UI to always create an access request on login. If it is
    # set to 'reason', the user will be required to indicate *why* they are
    # generating the access request.
    request_access: reason
    # the `request_prompt` field can be used to tell the user what should
    # be supplied in the request reason field.
    request_prompt: Please provide your ticket ID
version: v3
```

<Admonition
  type="tip"
  title="Wildcard and RegEx Tips"
>
  Teleport RBAC offers powerful wildcard and RegEx helpers. Below are a few examples.

  `dev-*` - Can request all dev clusters. e.g. dev-prod,dev-stg

  `^prod.*$` - Can request all `prod.*` clusters. e.g. prod.us-east

  `dev-{{regexp.match("us-*")}}` - Can request any dev cluster in the US. e.g. dev-us-east-a, dev-us-west-b

  `dev-{{regexp.not_match("beta")}}-prod` - Can request any cluster, apart from beta cluster. e.g. Can access dev-alpha-prod, cannot access dev-beta-prod.
</Admonition>

**Unprivileged User Login**<br/>

```code
# Login: This will prompt the user to provide a reason in the UI.
$ tsh login
# Login: The user can provide a reason using tsh.
$ tsh login --request-reason="..."
```

<Admonition
  type="tip"
  title="Note"
>
  Notice that the above role does not specify any logins. If a users's roles specify no logins, Teleport will now generate the user's initial SSH certificates with an invalid dummy login of the form `-teleport-nologin-<random-suffix>` (e.g. `-teleport-nologin-1e02dbfd`).
</Admonition>

**Admin Flow: Approve/Deny**<br/>

A number of new parameters are now available that grant the plugin or administrator greater insight into approvals/denials:

```code
$ tctl request deny --reason='Please be more specific' --annotations=method=cli,unix-user=${USER} 28a3fb86-0230-439d-ad88-11cfcb213193
```

Because automatically generated requests always include all roles that the user is allowed to request, approvers can now specify a smaller subset of the requested roles that should actually be applied, allowing for sub-selection in cases where full escalation is not a desirable default:

```code
$ tctl request approve --roles=role-1,role-3 --reason='Approved, but not role-2 right now' 28a3fb86-0230-439d-ad88-11cfcb213193
```

### Other features of Access Requests

- Users can request multiple roles at one time. e.g `roles: ['dba','netsec','cluster-x']`
- Approved requests have no effect on Teleport's behavior outside of allowing additional
  roles on re-issue. This has the nice effect of making requests "compatible" with
  older versions of Teleport, since only the issuing Auth Server needs any particular
  knowledge of the feature.

## Integrating with an External Tool

| Integration | Feature | Type | Setup Instructions |
| - | - | - | - |
| Slack | | Chatbot | [Setup Slack](ssh-approval-slack.mdx) |
| Mattermost | | Chatbot | [Setup Mattermost](ssh-approval-mattermost.mdx) |
| Jira Server | | Project Board | [Setup Jira Server](ssh-approval-jira-server.mdx) |
| Jira Cloud | | Project Board | [Setup Jira Cloud](ssh-approval-jira-cloud.mdx) |
| PagerDuty | | Schedule | [Setup PagerDuty](ssh-approval-pagerduty.mdx) |
